Welcome back to our study of the book of Proverbs and we are still in chapter 7 and we are going to read right now in verses 10 through 21.
Let's read.
And behold, a woman comes to meet him dressed as a harlot and cunning of heart.
She is boisterous and rebellious.
Her feet do not remain at home.
She is now in the streets, now in the squares and lurks by every corner.
So she seizes him and kisses him.
And with a brazen face, she says to him, I was due to offer peace offerings.
Today I have paid my vows.
Therefore I have come out to meet you, to seek your presence earnestly.
And I have found you.
I have spread my couch with coverings and my colored linens of eat with colored linens of Egypt.
I have sprinkled my bed with mirth, alloys and cinnamon.
Come let us drink our fill of love until morning.
Let us delight ourselves with caresses.
For my husband is not at home.
He has gone on a long journey.
He has taken a bag of money with him.
At the full moon, he will come home.
With her many persuasions, she entices him.
With her flattering lips, she seduces him.
Let's pray.
Father, I pray that you would help us to teach this passage
in a way that it would be of great help, Lord, that it would be of great help to your people, to the young boys and girls that are listening to the teenagers, to the parents, Lord, that we would understand the dangers, the great dangers of sin, that we'd learn to identify those dangers and stand against them, even separate ourselves from them.
Lord help help myself help me help the people who are listening to walk not as the foolish, but as those who are wise who understand the will of God and obey it.
And Lord also increase our fear of the in Jesus name.
Amen.
We are in verse 14.
And the woman comes to this this young boy and she says this.
I was due to offer peace offerings.
Today I have paid my vows.
Now, as we've said, this is a woman who's unfaithful to God.
She's unfaithful to her husband.
She's unfaithful to her children.
We could say she's unfaithful to her tribe and she's being unfaithful to this young man because she's trying to get him to do something that is against the will of God.
Now, here's the amazing thing.
In verse 14, we see that she pretends to be religious.
She says, I was due to offer peace offerings.
Today, I've paid my vows.
I've made my offerings.
I've made my sacrifices.
I've done the right religious thing.
Now, do you see the contrast externally?
A person does religious things.
externally a person may even profess faith in Christ or say that they are a Christian or say that they belong to a church.
But the real proof of their Christianity, of their faith is the way they live.
Now with her, we see something throughout all these characteristics.
And that is the word autonomy.
It's kind of a self law.
self-government.
She claims to know God, but she lives in a way that is contrary to God.
She has not put herself under God's governance, under God's law, but she pretends to know God and yet lives under a law to herself.
You know, sometimes I say this, many people who claim to worship God, here's what they've done.
They're not worshiping the God of the Bibles.
Matter of fact, they don't even like Him.
They've made a God in their own image, and then they worship the God that they've made.
That's what they've done.
Also, they've kind of made up their own commands, and then they follow the commands they've made.
The test, young person, as to whether or not you're a true Christian, the test as to whether your faith
is reliable and real, is that not only you claim to know God, but that you know the God of the Bible.
And not only that, you know His will.
You recognize it is right.
You seek to obey it.
And when you do not obey it, when you fail, you repent, you ask for forgiveness, and you begin again.
This is
To me, verse 14 is absolutely astounding.
She's asking Him to disobey one of the most important commands in the 10 commandments.
It has to do with fidelity or faithfulness in marriage.
She's asking Him to break this command even when the penalty for breaking this command in the Old Testament was death.
And she's doing it all the while.
She claims to be religious and obedient.
Do you see how deceptive sin can be?
So I ask you again, do you claim to know God?
Do you claim to believe in Christ?
Do you go to church?
Well, all that's wonderful.
But now here's the true test.
What is your relationship with the commands of God?
with the commands of Christ.
Are you walking an obedience?
There's the question.
Now, let's go on.
Here's another characteristic of the woman in verse 15.
She says to this young man, therefore I have come out to meet you to seek your presence earnestly and I have found you.
Do you know what she's doing?
She's flattering him.
And she's making him feel special.
That's what the devil will do.
That's what sinners will do.
That's what the world will do until it uses you up and you're of no use anymore.
She says, I've come out to meet you to seek your presence earnestly.
And she says, I found you.
It's almost as if she's saying, um,
You know, I was seeking for you and seeking for you.
And here you are.
I found you.
What a great prize.
It's almost as if too.
She's saying, God helped me find you.
And we know that's not the case.
So I want you to think about something.
Listen to what she says.
I've come out to meet you to find you, to seek your presence.
Imagine a hunter saying that to a deer.
I've come out to meet you.
I've been looking all over for him and now I have found you.
Would that be good news for a deer?
Or imagine a spider saying that to a fly.
I spread this web all across these leaves.
I waited and waited and hoped that you would come and now you have come and I have found you.
Just think about that.
That's what's going on here because she is not seeking for him.
in order to bring him into a right relationship with God.
She's not looking for him in order to help him grow in Christ.
She is looking for him in order to use him to pull him away from the paths of God.
And it will eventually lead to his destruction.
And once you think about this, we go back to Genesis chapter three and what happens?
Satan comes out to meet Adam and Eve.
It's almost as if he said the same thing.
I've been searching for you and searching for you and here now I have found you.
She's saying, I have found you and now I'm going to take you away where you will experience all kinds of wonderful pleasures.
Satan comes out and what does he do?
I have found you and I am here to do what?
To save you from God.
That's basically what he's saying.
because when he says, why don't you eat of this tree?
Now don't you think about this for a moment.
God gave Adam and Eve every tree in the entire world except one.
Now he made those trees, they didn't, and he gives every tree he ever made to them to enjoy and to eat from, except one.
But Satan comes and says,
Did God really prohibit you from participating in this tree?
I don't think so.
He wouldn't do something like that.
But then when they say, well, yes, he did.
Then he turns it around and says, well, isn't that kind of cruel of God that he would keep things from you?
That's one of the things that you've got to realize about Satan, about sinners and about the world.
They will oftentimes come to save you from God.
Or if you're a Christian who's serious about knowing the commands of God and following them, they will come to you to try to save you from your rigid religion that's keeping you from having all the fun that they have.
Do you see how deceptive it is?
So in verse 14, what's going on?
She appears as a very, very religious person, but she's not.
In verse 15, what's going on?
Oh, it's all about you.
I've come out to find you.
I am so happy that I have found you.
You're so special to me.
But in reality, it's like the spider saying that to the fly or the hunter saying that to the deer.
I'm excited because I found you and now I'm going to devour you.
Now, the next one is very, very important.
Look at verses 16 through 18.
I have spread my couch with covering.
With colored linens of Egypt, I've sprinkled my bed with mirth, alloys, and cinnamon.
Come, let us drink our fill of love until morning.
Let us delight ourselves with caresses.
I've written here, like the unfaithful woman, the world beautifies the very evil that God hates, and that brings death and eternal condemnation.
You see, she's asking him to break one of the most important commands in all the Bible that have to do with being faithful in marriage.
She's saying, break that command, break it, but it will be beautiful.
I've decorated everything.
My dear friend, it doesn't matter how beautiful it appears.
If it is contrary to the Word of God, if it's contrary to the will of God, it will end in death.
And you need to understand that.
The world, you know, this is something about the world's propaganda is incredible.
The signs leading to hell are absolutely gorgeous.
And they make promises of life and of meaning and of purpose and of pleasure and of entertainment and of enjoyment.
The signs are absolutely gorgeous.
But the real thing is sin, death, the grave and hell.
And so it doesn't matter how much she beautifies all of this.
It's still disobedience to the commands of God.
Now also let's go and look at verse 19 through 20 and we'll see here that the world seeks out every opportunity to escape from God's morality and into sin.
Listen to what she says, for my husband is not at home.
He has gone on a long journey.
He has taken a bag of money with him.
At the full moon, he will come home.
Now, I want us to kind of tear this apart because we're going to see all kinds of very, very important truths here.
First of all, we see that she has no moral convictions of her own.
So while her husband is there, she's like a trapped animal.
She doesn't run out into the streets.
She doesn't do bad things while her husband is there.
But the moment he leaves, she's like a caged animal that found a way to get the door open.
And as soon as that door is open, she runs straight out to what she thinks is freedom, even though it is only sin.
Now, I want to share something with you.
If you're raised in a Christian home,
If your parents are Christians, if they love the Lord, if they're trying to raise you, that's a wonderful thing.
But at the same time, it should actually be a little bit fearful.
Why?
I have seen so many children, so many homeschool children, that while they're at home, until they're 18 or so, while they're at home, they act very
obedient.
They go to church because their parents tell them we're going to church.
They read the Bible because their parents tell them to read the Bible.
They avoid certain sins because their parents tell them to avoid certain sins.
But soon as they come out from under the guidance and governance of their parents, they run wild like some rabbit dog in the yard.
They run straight for the world.
So what does that tell us?
Young person, the most important thing right now to you is not outward conformity to your parent's standard.
Even though you should conform to that standard, the most important thing is for you to look inward and ask yourself, am I doing this because I truly have a relationship with Jesus Christ?
I love him.
I love his commandments and I want to follow him.
If you cannot say that and you realize that all your obedience, all your church going, all your homework, everything that you do, all your obedience is just because you have to, just because you do not have a choice.
If that's the case with you, you should be very, very, very afraid.
And what should you do?
You should be honest.
First of all, you should be honest to God.
You should say, God, I'm here acting this way.
I know it only because I'm like an animal in a cage.
I'm young and my parents have control over me.
But I know in my heart that if I get a little bit of freedom, I'm going to run as far away from you as I can.
I'm going to run as far into the world as I can.
say that to God, confess it to God, say cry out to God.
God help me.
God, please change my heart.
Please change my heart.
But also go to your parents and just be honest and say things like, you know, I appreciate you and I appreciate what you're trying to do.
But this is still not in my heart.
Pray for me.
I'm afraid, mom and dad, I'm afraid that if you were to turn away, I would run like an animal out of a cage and I don't want to be that way.
I know it's wrong.
So pray for me, intercede for me, teach me, help me.
Pray that God will work in my heart so that I will love him when no one is looking.
I will hate sin when no one is looking.
I will love righteousness when no one is looking and I'll do all that because it's in my heart, because God has saved me and God has changed me.
In Psalms 32 9, it says, do not be as the horse or as the mule, which have no understanding whose trappings include bit and bridle to hold them in check.
Otherwise, they will not come near to you.
Do you see how that may apply to many of you who are listening right now?
Yeah, outwardly your obedient.
Yes, you do go to church and Sunday school and you do your homeschool curriculum and you read your Bible.
Wonderful.
But you know that if your parents weren't there and struck you to do so holding you accountable that you wouldn't.
That means that your heart has still not been changed.
And so you should cry out to God and also seek counsel from your parents.
And then maybe with your parents seek counsel from one of the pastors or elders of your church.
All right.
Well, I hope that this has been helpful.
And I hope it's been a wake up call.
We started out in verse 14 with a woman who appears very religious, super spiritual.
But she's exposed quickly.
Why?
She doesn't love the commands of God, nor does she seek to obey them.
We see someone who is making sin appear to be beautiful, not realizing that it's actually kind of what Jesus said, isn't it?
That the Pharisees and the scribes, they decorated these tombs.
They made them so beautiful.
But inside those tombs, there was nothing but rotten bones.
And then we see someone who says, you know, no one's here.
My husband's gone.
There's no one here to hold me accountable.
There's no one here to judge me.
Now I'm free.
And since I'm free, I'm going to run straight into sin.
Oh, please, I beg you, be careful.
Be careful.
If that's you, go to your parents, go to your pastor, tell them the truth.
Ask for prayer, ask for instruction.
Go to God.
Lord, change my heart.
All right?
Let's pray.
Father, I come before you, and I pray.
Lord, I am sure that there are some who listen to this, who outwardly appear obedient, but inwardly,
They just want to escape.
They want to run from righteousness and into sin.
I pray, dear God, that you would work in their heart, that you would change their heart, change them in such a way that they would hate the sin they once loved, and love for the righteousness they once hated.
Lord, I ask this in Jesus' name, amen.